What is the most important thing to know about flow control in your opinion?

That it's linear. If one condition is fulfilled, the program stops running for efficiency; the computer won't do any more work than you make it.

What is the most difficult thing to understand about flow control?

I think the hardest things for me to fully comprehend are the way all the key vocabulary interacts (unless, if, else— which is most appropriate when), and also how if, elsif, and else are linear conditions (in that as soon as Ruby finds a match, the program will stop running).

What are some ways of comparing two objects to see if they are the same?
You can set up an if/else statement easily to do this using the == (equal-to) operator:
`if x == y then p 'Same!'`
Or in block form:
```ruby
if x == y
  p 'Same!'
else
  p 'Different!'
```
Aside from this, Ruby provides the operators != (not the same), > (greater than), >= (greater than or equal to), < (less than), <= (less than or equal to).

Which challenge was the most difficult? Why do you think that was?
The valid_triangle? problem really put up a wall for me. It was definitely in part because I haven't reviewed algebra at all recently, but mostly my problems stemmed from overcomplicating my code. I tried to create if-else statements for each kind of triangle (equilateral, right, isosceles) to rule everything ELSE out-- when the simpler and more elegant way was to define only what a triangle WAS.

What did your pair teach you about Ruby, flow control, programming, or being a good pair when you were pairing?
My pair and I were definitely able to communicate pretty well about what we understood, and when the challenge was within our grasp, we completed it quickly. When we ran into problems, though, I felt as though we talked past each other— like we were explaining things to ourselves, rather than to each other. That taught me that pooling knowledge gets further than I can get alone, and that finding the most effective way to communicate is crucial.

4.5.1 Good Guess: https://github.com/kenworthyc/phase-0/blob/master/week-4/good-guess/my_solution.rb

4.5.2 Letter Grade (paired): https://github.com/kenworthyc/phase-0/blob/master/week-4/calculate-grade/my_solution.rb

4.5.3 Triangle Sides (paired): https://github.com/kenworthyc/phase-0/blob/master/week-4/triangle-side/my_solution.rb

4.5.4 Leap Year (paired): https://github.com/kenworthyc/phase-0/blob/master/week-4/leap-years/my_solution.rb

4.5.5 Simple Substrings: https://github.com/kenworthyc/phase-0/blob/master/week-4/simple-substrings/my_solution.rb