What does it mean to iterate over an array?
To iterate over an array is to access each of the array's elements in turn, usually to return/print or to change their elements.

How are arrays structured? What can they contain?
Arrays are lists. One array contains a list of objects, which are indexed by number (from 0 on up). Arrays can contain strings, integers, and even other arrays, which can all be accessed by their numerical index.

Based on what you've learned, what is the best way to access values in a hash?
Since hashes allow the programmer to assign their own index to a list of objects (in a structure called key-value pairs), keys are the most useful and intuitive way to access values.

What are some important things to remember about hash keys and uniqueness?
Since hash keys can be assigned any object — string, integer, array, etc — in a large enough hash (or group of hashes), duplication is a possibility. Thankfully, Ruby includes a tool called symbols which can be used as keys (formatted like this: my_hash = { :my_symbol : "value"}), and are not duplicable.

What are the main differences between arrays and hashes? When do you think one will be better over the other?
Since hash keys can be assigned, they can be semantic to the programmer. An array of people and addresses indexes each by number, while in a hash, a person and their address can be linked with the assigned key and value, and a person can point to their address (and vice versa). Arrays are excellent for simple lists, and less taxing for the computer to iterate over; hashes contain more complex sets of information in a more readable way.