What are methods? Why are they useful?
Methods are blocks of code which are constructed to affect their relevant arguments. Methods are Ruby verbs; they do something (to something). Objects [values, variables, arrays, etc] can be passed through methods and come out different, and that change can be used in programming to many different ends.

What are local variables? Where are they able to be accessed (HINT: try accessing a local variable outside of a method to see).

Local variables are variables that are wrapped inside a method; basically, "local" is to say that a variable is under house arrest, exerting its will only within the house, while a global variable goes about its business all around the house and elsewhere.

What is a method's argument? How would you use that?
How does Ruby know what to return in a method?
A method's argument is what the method TAKES as its object. If a method is a Ruby verb, an argument is that verb's object.

What does it mean to iterate (or loop) over arrays or hashes?
Iterating/looping over arrays or hashes means accessing each array element in sequence. Since items in an array are indexed with numbers (0, 1, 2...), looping accesses each index numerically.

What new Ruby methods did you learn about in this challenge?
I learned about .inject/.reduce, reinforced my understanding of .join, and spoke with my pair a little about .concat.

What did you learn from your pair in this challenge?

So much. My pair had a really strong understanding of loops; the relationship between method arguments and hooking the argument into the method block was something that he demonstrated very clearly. That served to show me by example those inter-relationships and helped a lot.