
what's the issue; passwords are dumb, bad at their jobs, and still hard to remember
how to fix; automate passwords securely
why to fix; do you think that we're going to need passwords LESS or what

Online Security and Modern Passwords

Modern methods of online security are a hulking dinosaur within the increasingly streamlined and innovative landscape of today's world wide web. One time passwords — OTPs as internet security firms call them (internet slang notwithstanding) — are at once the most commonly used and the most easily bypassed of any security measure to protect a user's access and identity online. If you live in the US, there's a higher chances than not that you log onto your *bank's website* using an OTP. When an institution like MIT (has issues with its users' security)[https://kb.mit.edu/confluence/display/istcontrib/Strong+Passwords] due to OTPs, there's a problem with the system.

In fact, saying there's one problem is understating it. OTPs are riddled with security holes, and the biggest hole is human error! One-time passwords rely on human memory to safeguard what is can be incredibly important information. (From the number of times you've forgotten an aunt's name alone— or had to reset your Gmail password— you should be able to recognize that our memories are fickle beasts.) Because of a human brain's limited capacity to store a high number of secure passwords (which (do not include any word in the dictionary)[http://www.jccc.edu/about/leadership-governance/information-security/passwords.html] or combination of 10 numbers), many of us rely on just one minimally secure string of characters to protect everything we do online; the messages we send, the businesses we support, and the beliefs we espouse. The more a person's real identity parallels with their online identity, the more precious — and imperiled — the safety of that identity becomes. Anyone with an errant facebook password can radically change someone's public persona. There are real dangers to using OTPs, and there needs to be another option.

Two-factor authentication is the commonly accepted white knight to protect users from OTPs. Two-factor authentication is a simple process that needs one password as well as another avenue of communication to confirm your identity. (Logging in with Google on unfamiliar computers will prompt a form of this now; they text you a number to enter, and assuming you're not an actual phone thief along with an identity thief, you can enter the site securely.) Nonetheless, this process (more than half the process!) still relies on forgetful human brains that don't lock in more than a few strings of random characters. Weak two-factor authentication is still weak.

To me, here's the remaining question: why on earth are we still relying on our brains? Complex algorithms have made so many facets of modern life *so* much easier; why hasn't it been widely adopted for online security? If there's one thing computers are good at, it's remembering things so that humans don't have to. There are password management services like LastPass, KeePass, or Passpack, which do measurably improve your security; but even these have their problems (https://security.stackexchange.com/questions/45170/how-safe-are-password-managers-like-lastpass). Notably, they rely upon another master password. The automation of all passwords— each password each time it's needed— is the only way one could depend upon a password as a security measure. I can hardly believe the market hasn't acted on this lack of product, but as soon as a company appears, I'll sign up.



