I have so many feelings about stereotype threat. I have a deep fondness for the blog post about stereotype threat by Michelle G. on the MIT Admissions site. Near the end, she writes: "I am a multi-faceted person. I’m an MIT student and an East Campus resident. I’m terrible at basketball and I always win at Mario Party. ... I am a smart person. I am a capable person. I am a capable person."

As for me: I'm 22, attended a liberal arts college with a high female-to-male ratio, I identify as a cis woman. I partially chose my college due to its focus on the humanities and low math requirements. Oddly, until I was about 13, I was in the top 2% of any math class or assessment I took. I have no rational explanation for how much I started veering away from STEM into the humanities... just patriarchal-society hypotheses, which slot women into gendered roles even more insistently after puberty.

I never had any empirical reason to doubt my ability to pick up abstract concepts or rote information. Learning foreign languages was always a pleasure for me; after 6 years of study and 1 of immersion, I'm fluent in French and can write a 10-page academic paper in it. I think of myself as smart enough to learn whatever I want to learn.

But I hadn't gone into STEM as a student. I had to convince myself that I could succeed at DBC. I told myself (and the interviewers) that coding, after all, is just learning the language computers speak to humans! It seems like contortionist reasoning. I could've just *liked* coding and wanted to learn it. To justify my aptitude for it, I felt the need to anchor to a different notable accomplishment.

This interpretation of stereotype threat is specific to my identification as a woman and wanting to learn coding. And I have an urge to say "coding isn't even the hardest of the STEM fields!" But who is that helping? Coding is hard for people and science is hard for people and math is hard for people and French is hard for people. Any field of study takes dedication to achieve fluency, and remembering that could ameliorate the effects of stereotype threat. (I am a capable person.)