What drew me to DevBootcamp over other courses - not only for coding, but life paths, as a tender postgraduate - was its holistic philosophy. More often than not in my life, the times I've felt the most at ease and the most intensely interested were when I was learning, integrating knowledge, and sharing it with others in quick succession, and DBC's shared passion for community, personal growth, and education called to me.

The value of mindfulness and presence are deeply important to my worldview. There's a quotation by the writer Annie Dillard: "How we spend our days is, of course, how we spend our lives." This recognition of the path over the end of the road is what made me seek out a field of employment that required not only learning, but constant learning and collaboration. I want to be enjoy, be challenged, and be engaged each day of my education, my job, my career-- because what else is there?

DBC's take on what makes successful software engineers-- the Engineering Empathy curricula, the general focus given to physical, mental, and emotional health-- scares me, threatens my ego, and feels like a breath of fresh air in a full-throttle make-as-much-money-as-you-can culture. (I like that Shereef's restaurant analogy has an anti-consumerist flavor; money should be just a tool to have fun, in my mind.) The idea that I could build a skill doing something both creative and interpretive, originating concepts and breaking them down into steps a machine can execute, is thrilling and paralyzing.

I really want to learn to identify with the Kitchen side of the analogy; being so involved in the process, in creating and learning would be a genuine dream to me. Keeping an eye on the prize is useful, challenging, and necessary for the world to run; to feel at one with your craft is, I think, a rare gift and a key to happiness.

Another corollary of the analogy I found interesting— a kitchen can't function single-handedly. Learning practicable empathy is one of the things that excited me most about DBC's ethos, though nobody I told really understood what I meant. That's part of why I'm so interested in it. Active empathy- towards ourselves and others- seems to be an ignored topic, yet it can have such an immediate, dramatic effect on our relationships.

This collaborative effort our cohort will be undertaking is a way to learn to code, to learn about HTML & CSS, object-oriented programming, Ruby, yes; it's also an invitation to rethink our habitual actions toward the people we know and the ones we love (and who we don't yet know, the ones we may love). I'm excited to start.